## Learning Interactions and Dynamics of Swarms

The process of discovering and modeling interactions and dynamics of animal and robot swarms hasbeen of interest to academics for quite some time. This topic falls under the field of nonlinear System Identification (SID). Generally swarms dynamics are non-linear and are governed by Ordinary Differential Equations (ODEs). 

The benefits of learning these models allow us to effectively understand and learn models from real-world swarms such as a flock of birds or insects. There  exists  many  swarm  models  and  there  is  no  single  unifying  model  that  governs  all swarm systems, for our project we focused on the following model:
$$
\dot{r}_i = v_i(t)    \\
\dot{v}_i = \underbrace{f(v_i(t))}_{\text{\tiny intrinsic dynamics}}-\underbrace{\sum^N_{j=1, i\neq j} g(r_i(t), r_j(t))}_{\text{\tiny interaction dynamics}} + \underbrace{\eta_i(t)}_{\text{\tiny noise}} 
$$

We decided to test and compare the various types of existing System Identification methods including RNNs, MLPs and CNNs (which aim to predict the future trajectories) and SINDy and Neural ODE - a SOTA system (which aim to approximate the intrinsic dynamical process itself). We experiment and test these models for all kinds of swarm models - Steady State and Transient State dynamics with different and same initial conditions. 

We noticed that our baselines (RNNs, MLPs, CNNs and SINDy) do not really generalize the transient models well. Neural ODE is a rather new deep learning method that provides researchers with the tools to better capabilities to train ODEs within larger models.

_For the full report and further details please contact me_